---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/digital/10-19-personal/10-medical/10-02-long-covid/10-dr-teitelbaum-protocol/","noteIcon":""}
---


Dr. Teitelbaum

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0y_tbsZHMgA&feature=youtu.be>

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HGJiLwH1bKg&feature=youtu.be>


[vitamin store](https://secure.endfatigue.com)

[web site](https://www.vitality101.com)

[the program](https://www.energyanalysisprogram.com)




LISTEN

post-viral
enseflopathic
brain fog-  hypothalamis

autonomic

low dose naltroxone
primary tier
8-10 weeks


increase energy production
Sleep
Hormone
Inections
Nutrition
Exercise


Curamin Supplement
Curamin Extra Strength
zinc
HRG80 Red Ginseng Energy



Your score indicates that you have met the CDC criteria as possibly having CFS (though you did not show signs of fibromyalgia). We recommend that you consult a physician for further evaluation.


brain cooling.???

4.5 mg  - start
LDN
microglia stuck in the on position
couple months before progress
reset

maravirov = research

d ribose and coq10


stop needing to know!


































[MY EVAL](<Before You Begin, a Little Advice on Taking Supplements

When beginning a new regimen of multiple supplements, always start with just 1 and then add a new 1 every 1-3 days. It usually takes 1-3 months to feel better. After feeling well for 9 months, you can gradually taper off the supplements (discontinue 1 every 1-2 weeks to see if you still need it). Most of the nutritional supplements recommended for you can be purchased at www.EndFatigue.com.  

Advice given below is marked as HIGH, MEDIUM, and LOW to indicate relative importance for most people.

You Should Improve Your Overall Nutrition

Every vitamin and nutritional mineral is important in some way to health. Your body depends on receiving vitamins and minerals from your diet because it can't make them itself. If you don't have optimal levels of vitamins and minerals — whether because you eat too much junk food or because your body is unable to properly metabolize the good food you eat — your health may suffer.

Food is your best source of nutrition, of course. But most of us eat a heavily processed modern diet that doesn't deliver an optimal level of nutrients. Why not? Do the nutritional math: 18% of the calories in the modern diet are from sugar. Another 18% are from white flour. A good chunk of the rest is from added fats. In all, more than 50% of the calories in the modern diet are from empty calories, stripped of vitamins and minerals. Because of this, almost everyone benefits from optimized nutritional support.

Specific Recommendations for You

Nutritional Supplements that Can Help

<span style="background:#9254de">[HIGH] Energy Revitalization System (by Enzymatic Therapy) vitamin powder. Stir  ½-1 scoop of this fruit-flavored drink mix with 6-8 ounces of water for a daily morning drink. If you experience gas or diarrhea, use a lower dose.  One drink is equivalent to taking over 35 supplement tablets.  If you find you don't tolerate the vitamin powder well (because it is a strong nutritional support), take 2 capsules daily of an alternative multivitamin called Clinical Essentials (by EuroPharma).</span>

[MEDIUM] Vectomega (by EuroPharma).  Take 1 capsule a day.  Vectomega is an excellent way to get your fish oil Omega 3 EFA support as one small capsule is the equivalent of taking 7 typical large fish oil pills.

Take these next 3 for 4-9 months. After that, reduce the amount you take to the lowest amount that still maintains the benefits (or stop completely if you see no benefits).

<span style="background:#9254de">[HIGH] S.H.I.N.E.® D-Ribose.  Mix 1 small scoop (5 grams) of powder with food, water, or any beverage 2-3 times a day (breakfast and lunch are the key times).  If it makes you feel hyper, lower the amount used (this reaction suggests the need for adrenal support).</span>

[MEDIUM] Coenzyme Q10.  Take 200 mg once a day with food.

[MEDIUM] Acetyl-L-Carnitine.  Take 500 mg (1-2 capsules) twice a day for 3 months. Then reduce to 250-500 mg a day, or stop altogether. This can also help you lose weight.

You Might Benefit from Sleep Support

Sleep disorders affect about 70 million Americans. If you have trouble falling asleep, it's often due to too much stress or chronic exhaustion (it takes energy for your sleep center to work). It can also be due to drinking too much coffee or other caffeinated drinks late in the day. The average night's sleep in the U.S. was 9 hours a night until 130 years ago. With light bulbs, TV, computers, and other modern conveniences, we've become a sleep deprived society at an average of only 6.5 hours a night (8 is usually optimal, but the right amount is whatever actually feels best to you). A good night's sleep is critical for optimal energy, mental clarity, muscle healing, and optimal immune function.

Herbal sleep aids can often help when you have trouble falling asleep, or trouble remaining asleep. Formulations that include theanine, 5-HTP, lemon balm, hops, passionflower and valerian are best.

Specific Recommendations for You

Try the below aids in the order listed or as you prefer based on your experience with each.  Adjust the dose for each as needed to get 8-9 hours of deep sleep without waking or getting a hangover.  Mixing low doses of several treatments is more likely to help you get your 8 hours of sleep without a hangover than a high dose of 1 medication. If you experience next-day drowsiness, try taking the medications (except the Ambien) a few hours before bedtime. Do not drive if you experience next-day drowsiness. Ambien (largely at doses over 10 mg) and Klonopin are potentially addictive. 

If you often wake between 2 and 4 am:

Eat a snack that has about an ounce of protein (e.g., a hard-boiled egg or some sliced meat or fish) at bedtime to see if it helps.  This may help by preventing the nightly drop in blood sugar that can be caused by low adrenal.
If you wake during the night with an urge to go to the bathroom, resist doing so unless the urge remains 5 minutes later.  This will help train your bladder to not wake you during the night.
Nighttime acid reflux can be reduced by drinking ½ teaspoon of baking soda mixed in 4 oz of water and by taking 5-6 mg of melatonin at bedtime.  Using a "Sleep Wedge" pillow also helps (see Hammacher.com).
Nighttime nasal congestion can significantly disrupt sleep quality. If you are congested, do a nasal rinse at bedtime.  Also consider using Breathe Right nose strips in combination with either Nozovent or MAX-AIR Nose Cones. (All are available on Amazon.)
The smell of lavender can help you sleep.  Try spraying a small amount under your pillow or placing a drop of the oil on your upper lip before bedtime.

Nutritional Supplements that Can Help

For a great herbal mix, I recommend the Revitalizing Sleep Formula. If you need additional help, one to two tablets of AnxioCalm, which contains a special herb for sleep, and a mix of essential oils called Terrific Zzzz, can be added to the Revitalizing Sleep Formula.

If your mind is racing and wide awake at bedtime, you may have a condition associated with elevated bedtime cortisol levels. Interestingly, this is common in people who have adrenal fatigue, with cortisol levels too low during the day (leaving you very irritable when hungry) and too high at night. A special herbal mix in a product called Sleep Tonight can be helpful in these cases.
All of these can be taken together and in combination with sleep medications.

[HIGH] Revitalizing Sleep Formula (by Enzymatic Therapy).  This herbal mix contains valerian (200 mg), passion flower (90 mg), L-theanine (50 mg), hops (30 mg), lemon balm, and 5-HTP (50 mg). Take 2-4 capsules 30-90 minutes before bedtime. It can also be used during the day to help promote a feeling of calmness.  5-10% of people taking valerian become over-stimulated by it.  If this happens to you, switch to using other suggestions in this list. Do not take more than 8 capsules a day.

[MEDIUM] Melatonin.  I recommend using Dual Spectrum Melatonin 5 mg (by Nature's Bounty, available at Walgreens or on Amazon).

[MEDIUM] Sleep Tonight (by Enzymatic Therapy). Take 1-2 at bedtime as needed.  This product contains ashwagandha and phosphatidyl serine. It's especially helpful if your mind is wide awake at bedtime. If this works for you, you'll probably see the effects within the first week.

[LOW] 5-HTP.  Take 200-400 mg at night.  It naturally stimulates your body's production of serotonin.  Don't take over 200 mg a day if you are on antidepressants.  Give this 6 weeks to work.

[MEDIUM] Terrific Zzzz (by EuroPharma). This is an excellent mix of essential oils that helps support sleep. Take 1-2 at bedtime.

[LOW] CalmAid (by Nature's Way). This contains lavender oil. Take 1 at bedtime.

[LOW] AnxioCalm (by EuroPharma).  Take 1-2 tablets at bedtime.

[MEDIUM] Magnesium.  Take 200 mg at bedtime.  This also helps decrease pain and settle jumpy legs.

Medications

Prescription medication options to discuss with your physician:

[HIGH] Ambien (Rx, zolpidem).  Take  ½-1 10-mg tablet at bedtime. This is mostly to help people fall asleep.  If you tend to wake during the night, leave part of the tablet at your bedside and take it if needed to help you fall back asleep (crush it between your front teeth and put it under your tongue).

[MEDIUM] Neurontin (Rx, gabapentin).  Take 1-9 of the 100-mg capsules at bedtime. This can also help relieve pain and the symptoms of restless legs syndrome. They come in tablet strengths up to 900 mg, so you can probably get the exact strength you need once you know the optimal dose.

[MEDIUM] Desyrel (Rx, trazodone).  Take ½ to one 50-mg tablet at bedtime. 

[MEDIUM] Flexeril (Rx, cyclobenzaprine).  Take  ½ to one 5-mg tablets at bedtime.  This is a muscle relaxant.   It can cause dry mouth.

[MEDIUM] Doxylamine (Unisom for Sleep), Benadryl (diphenhydramine) or Dramamine (Dimenhydrinate).  Take 12.5-50 mg at night.  This can also help with pain. All 3 of these are antihistamines, so don't take more than a total of 50 mg a night of any 1 or mix of them. They may increase dry mouth. Try each of them to see the effect, as one often works well when the others don't. These are available without a prescription.

[LOW] Elavil (Rx, amitriptyline).  Take ½ to two 10-mg tablets at bedtime.  This may cause weight gain or dry mouth.  It's helpful for nerve pain and pelvic pain/vulvodynia (especially when combined with Neurontin).

You Might Benefit from Mood Support

Specific Recommendations for You

Nutritional Supplements that Can Help

[LOW] Calming Balance.  This provides 500 mg of vitamin B1, passion flower, theanine, magnolia, B vitamins, and magnesium (per each 3-capsule serving). Take 3  capsules 3x a day for 6 weeks to see the optimal effect. You can sometimes then lower the dose. This isn't only very calming, but also improves energy and cognitive function.  

[LOW] AnxioCalm (by EuroPharma). Take 2 twice a day. This special unique component of echinacea was shown in studies to be as calming as Valium-family medications after 6 weeks of use, without the drowsiness or addictive effects.

 
You Might Need Thyroid Hormone Support

The thyroid is an organ in your neck that secretes hormones to drive your metabolism. It acts as your body's gas pedal, regulating how many calories you burn for energy. When it's underactive, you can become tired, achy, cold intolerant, "brain fogged," constipated, infertile, and gain weight that you have difficulty losing. Thyroid optimization promotes healthy energy, weight control, mental clarity, muscle relaxation, and much more. People often benefit from nutritional thyroid support even if their blood tests are normal.

Nutritional supplements that provide high quality thyroid glandular extract can promote healthy thyroid function. Optimal iodine levels are also critical for both healthy thyroid and breast tissue function. Iodine deficiency with secondary goiters used to be endemic in the U.S. until manufacturers began adding iodine to wheat flour and, to a lesser degree, salt. This eliminated much of the problem —  until flour makers started adding bromine instead of iodine. This not only resulted in iodine consumption dropping by as much as half in the last decade, but even worsened the effects of iodine deficiency, as bromine may block thyroid function. One of the main problems caused by iodine deficiency is hypothyroidism, which can cause fatigue, weight gain and pain.

Specific Recommendations for You

Hormonal Treatments

You can usually get a single tablet or capsule at the dose strength you find optimal to your needs. This will lower your cost considerably, as the cost is usually based on the quantity of tablets or capsules rather than the amount contained in either. In most cases, you should only use bioidentical hormones.

Nutritional Supplements that Can Help

[LOW] Tri-iodine 6.25 mg (by EuroPharma).  Take 1 capsule a day for 2-4 months of this iodine supplement if you have daytime body temperatures under 98.3 degrees or breast cysts. Iodine may transiently flare Hashimoto's Thyroiditis. Stop or lower the dose if it causes acne or severe indigestion. Indigestion is uncommon, but if it occurs, it typically take 3 days to begin to resolve. 

<span style="background:#9254de">[HIGH] BMR Complex (by Integrative Therapeutics). This contains thyroid glandular and other helpful nutrients. This can be very helpful, even for those who can't get bioidentical thyroid by prescription. Take 1-2 twice a day on an empty stomach.</span>

Prescription

You may also want to speak with a holistic doctor about prescription medications (compounded or Armour Thyroid).

You Might Need Help with Occasional Aches and Pains

Here's an interesting thought. What if pain is not your enemy! Hard to believe, but this simple realization can help you become pain-free. Just as your car's dashboard lights up to tell you that your oil is low, pain is meant to be a helpful warning that your body has a health issue that needs attention. Annoying though they may be, both the pain and oil light signals are a way to get your attention so that you can deal with a situation before it becomes much worse.

So feelings of pain are actually a healthy part of our body's monitoring system. The difficulty comes in when you can't identify the root cause of your pain. Your hand on a hot stove has an obvious source. But other pains, particularly when they're chronic, can be the result of very subtle heath issues that aren't so easy to pinpoint. This is one of the reasons I created the S.H.I.N.E.® protocol. S.H.I.N.E. stands for Sleep, Hormonal support, Immunity, Nutritional support, and Exercise (as able). When you take proper care of yourself in each of these fives areas, you create a truly holistic approach to helping your body avoid unnecessary pain from hidden causes. Our published research showed that the S.H.I.N.E. protocol relieved even the worst types of pain by 50% after just three months.

When it comes to getting comfortable, herbals can be an effective alternative to medications. They're synergistic even when taken with medications and often have side benefits instead of side effects.

Specific Recommendations for You

The nutritional supplements recommended below can be substituted for, or combined with, the prescription pain medications shown.  

Nutritional Supplements that Can Help

Taking the three supplements below often provide noticeable improvements within just six weeks of use. So I recommend you combine them for this long or until your pain is gone for three weeks. After your pain is gone, ask your doctor if you can lower the dose of the pain medication. At that point, the herbals can often be taken on an as-needed basis.

<span style="background:#9254de">[HIGH] Curamin (by EuroPharma). This herbal mix is remarkable for pain in general. It contains a special form of curcumin that delivers approximately 700% the absorption of others. It also contains DLPA, boswellia and nattokinase. Take 1 or 2 capsules 3x a day for 6 weeks or until your pain resolves (whichever comes first) and then lower the dose. It's amazing! It can be combined with any pain medications.</span>

[MEDIUM] End Pain Formula (developed by Dr Teitelbaum for Enzymatic Therapy).  It contains willow bark, boswellia and cherry. Take 2 tablets 3x a day. It takes 2-6 weeks to see the full effect. At that time, you can often lower the dose to 1 tablet 3x a day or 2 twice daily. 

[LOW] Traumaplant® Comfrey Cream (by EuroPharma). Apply over painful areas 3x a day or as needed. You can also use Icy Hot (available at most drug stores) and/ or Australian Dream Cream (available online) individually or combined.

Pharmacologic Pain Treatments

There are many reasonable sequences in which to try medications, and literally dozens that can help. These can be used with the natural and topical pain treatments as well. The order shown below is a reasonable sequence to try them in. It can take 2-6 weeks to see the full effect of the medication. If you find a medication doesn't help you significantly, move on to the next medication group shown in this list.  If you get partial benefit from one, continue it and add one of the medications in the next group to find how much that helps. Continue this medication selection process until you are pain free. Potential side effects can often be avoided by starting with a low dose of a medication and raising it gradually every 3-21 days as your body gets used to it. It may take 2-6 weeks to begin to feel the benefits, and longer to achieve an effective dose without side effects. Combining several medications from different categories at low dose can be more effective than a single medication at high dose, and with less side effects.

[MEDIUM] Ultram (Rx, Tramadol). Your physician can prescribe 50 mg 1 to 2 tablets up to 4 times a day as needed. Side effects are minimized by taking only 6 or fewer tablets a day. Higher doses may cause nausea and vomiting, or raise serotonin too high when combined with antidepressants. Although these are legally classified as potentially addictive, I've never seen a case of it happening.

Topical Treatments for Localized, Very Painful Areas

[LOW] Nerve Pain Topical Cream (Rx).  Rub a pea-sized amount onto especially painful areas 3 times a day or as needed (from ITC compounding pharmacy, 303-663-4224).  You can use this on as many as 4 hand-sized areas at a time. Give this 2 to 6 weeks to work.

Sodium Channel Blockade

[MEDIUM] Neurontin (Rx, Gabapentin).  Take 300-900 mg 2-4 times a day.  If it causes excessive drowsiness, cut back and increase by 100 mg a day every 4-5 days.  Begin with 100-300 mg at night and slowly increase to 300-900 mg 3 times a day as is comfortable.  In some, pain relief is immediate and at low dose. In others, it can take at least 2,400 mg a day.  Do not take more than 3,600 mg a day.  This is also helpful for pelvic pain, increasing deep sleep, and restless leg syndrome.

-OR-

[LOW] Lyrica (Rx Pregabalin).  Take 100 mg 2-3x a day. After 2-4 weeks you can increase to a maximum of 200 mg 3x day. The main side effects are dizziness and drowsiness (which tend to decrease over time) and, if taking doses over 300 mg, weight gain.

Muscle Relaxants

[MEDIUM] Flexeril (Rx cyclobenzaprine).  Take 1/2  to 1 5-mg tablet up to 4x a day, with 1 of these taken at bedtime.  Low doses of 2.5 mg often provide pain relief with much less daytime drowsiness.  Muscle relaxants can cause dry mouth.

Physical Therapies for Pain Relief

Rolfing, myofascial release, chiropractic and other body work and manipulation modalities, and acupuncture are all physical therapies that can help relieve occasional aches and pains. Frequency Specific Microcurrent (see FrequencySpecific.com to find a practitioner) can also be very helpful for difficult pain conditions.

You Might Benefit from a Detoxification Program

Specific Recommendations for You

[LOW] Sweating can remove toxins, especially if you shower immediately after you've been sweating.  This can also be very helpful for your health in general.  Many newer saunas are "far infrared."  A half-hour in one of these 3-7 times a week can help detoxification. High-Tech Health makes an excellent far infrared sauna (HighTechHealth.com).

Miscellaneous Advice

Consider speaking with your doctor to rule out bowel infections. Get stool testing (for infections and parasites only) at Genova labs or the Parasitology Center. If diarrhea persists, also test for Clostridia Difficile toxin (this can be done at any lab). A loose, unformed stool sample is needed for all of these stool tests, so taking 1-2 Dulcolax tablets may be needed to trigger the loose stool.
Consider speaking with your doctor to rule out orthostatic intolerance. You should rule out NMH (Neurally Mediated Hypotension) and POTS (Postural Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome). These are associated with a drop in blood pressure and an excess rise in pulse when standing. <span style="background:#9254de">Increasing salt and water intake, and taking </span>the medications Cortef (15 mg a day), Adderall (10-20 mg a day), Midodrine (5-10 mg 2-4 times a day, but not within 4 hours of bedtime), and SSRIs like Prozac or Zoloft can all help stabilize blood pressure and pulse. You can email me at FatigueDoc@gmail.com for a simple quiz that will help you and your physician determine if you have this (this can be as effective as a tilt table test) and a detailed information sheet on this topic.
Find out if you have restless leg syndrome (RLS) and treat for it if you have it. The blood test for iron (called a "Ferritin level" ) needs to be raised to over 60 if RLS is present. Optimizing thyroid and adrenal, and using Neurontin for sleep, can also help.
Ask your doctor about a sleep study to look for sleep apnea, which can cause daytime somnolence and high blood pressure and is very treatable. For a quick home screening, videotape yourself while sleeping and see if you have periods where you snore, stop breathing and then gasp for air.
Supplements Specifically for You

The supplements below are recommended for you based on our analysis of your answers. You don't need all of these, but you may want to try one or more based on the results of our analysis for you and the descriptions of each item (click "details").

To place an order, simply select the quantity of each supplement(s) that you want to try and then click the PayPal Checkout button. Shipping is free in the U.S and orders of $75 or more receive an additional 10% discount.

If you're interested in these recommendations but want to start in a smaller way, consider just getting the item marked as "BEST VALUE" (third in the list below). This combination of vitamin powder and ribose can have most people feeling better in just a month.>)